automation/README_AUTOMATION.md, before:

# Automation Setup

This project includes:
- `run_nonweb.sh` for lock-safe scheduled runs with logging
- `automation/cron.example` for cron scheduling
- `automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.service` + `automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.timer` for systemd scheduling

## 1) Wrapper script behavior

`run_nonweb.sh`:
- runs `zmap_scan_all.py --full-pipeline`
- writes logs to `data/logs/nonweb_pipeline.log`
- prevents overlapping runs via lock file in `data/locks/`

## 2) Cron setup (WSL/Linux)

1. Edit `automation/cron.example` and replace `REPLACE_ME_PROJECT_DIR`.
2. Add the line to your crontab:
   - `crontab -e`
3. Paste the cron line.

## 3) Systemd timer setup (Linux)

1. Copy unit files:
   - `sudo cp automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.service /etc/systemd/system/`
   - `sudo cp automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.timer /etc/systemd/system/`
2. Edit `/etc/systemd/system/nonweb-scan.service`:
   - set `User=...`
   - set `WorkingDirectory=...`
   - set `ExecStart=...`
3. Enable timer:
   - `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`
   - `sudo systemctl enable --now nonweb-scan.timer`
4. Check status:
   - `systemctl status nonweb-scan.timer`
   - `journalctl -u nonweb-scan.service -n 100 --no-pager`

## 4) Recommended cadence

If full runs are long, start with every 2 hours (or daily), then tighten cadence if needed.

Commit message:

Set automation cadence to every 6 hours and update README documentation

automation/README_AUTOMATION.md, after:

# Automation Setup

This project includes:
- `run_nonweb.sh` for lock-safe scheduled runs with logging
- `automation/cron.example` for cron scheduling
- `automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.service` + `automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.timer` for systemd scheduling

## 1) Wrapper script behavior

`run_nonweb.sh`:
- runs `zmap_scan_all.py --full-pipeline`
- writes logs to `data/logs/nonweb_pipeline.log`
- prevents overlapping runs via lock file in `data/locks/`

## 2) Cron setup (WSL/Linux)

1. Edit `automation/cron.example` and replace `REPLACE_ME_PROJECT_DIR`.
2. Add the line to crontab:
   - `crontab -e`
3. Paste the cron line.

## 3) Systemd timer setup (Linux)

1. Copy unit files:
   - `sudo cp automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.service /etc/systemd/system/`
   - `sudo cp automation/systemd/nonweb-scan.timer /etc/systemd/system/`
2. Edit `/etc/systemd/system/nonweb-scan.service`:
   - set `User=...`
   - set `WorkingDirectory=...`
   - set `ExecStart=...`
3. Enable timer:
   - `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`
   - `sudo systemctl enable --now nonweb-scan.timer`
4. Check status:
   - `systemctl status nonweb-scan.timer`
   - `journalctl -u nonweb-scan.service -n 100 --no-pager`

## 4) Recommended cadence

Default automation cadence in this repository is every 6 hours.
If full runs are very long, daily scheduling is also acceptable.
